**Information requested in email (July)**

-   **Project Title**:* *Community and Identity in the Roman Seventh
    Legion

-   **Descriptive Subtitle**: Digitally mapping funerary monuments
    referring to *Legio VII s*ervicemen and related members of the
    military community in Roman *Dalmatia.*

-   **Authors**:

<!-- -->

-   Ewan Coopey (primary investigator),
    <https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8633-6418>*;* Research Assistant and
    PhD candidate, Macquarie University Department of History and
    Archaeology.

-   Dr Brian Ballsun-Stanton (data scientist);
    <https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4932-7912>; Solutions Architect
    (Digital Humanities), Macquarie University Faculty of Arts.

<!-- -->

-   **Abstract**: \
    This database was designed to facilitate and supplement
    archaeological and epigraphical research conducted as part of a
    Master of Research thesis submitted in December 2020. The project
    builds upon and digitises the robust catalogic work of scholars
    local to the modern region, such as Domagoj Tončinić's 'Monuments of
    Legio VII in the Roman Province of Dalmatia'. This database stores
    various types of geographical, epigraphical, visual, and historical
    data related to Roman funerary and sacral inscriptions belonging to,
    or commemorating, servicemen or veterans of the Roman Seventh Legion
    (*Legio VII*) in the province of *Dalmatia *(the modern Eastern
    Adriatic coastline and hinterland). This project, and the related
    thesis '*Fratres Romani* in *Dalmatia*’,* *investigated the social
    dynamics of *Legio VII*, as well as processes of identity and
    community construction within the unit. It is hoped that this
    dataset will facilitate future research into military life in
    *Dalmatia*, as well as investigations of other corpora of Roman
    funerary stelae, as the general form of the dataset is
    transplantable onto epigraphical material from different regions of
    the Roman world.

-   **Banner Image**: Attached to the email in several sizes and aspects
    ratios.\
    Rights: Illustration: Jack Roberts. Copyright: Ewan Coopey. [CC
    BY-SA 2.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/) (or
    whichever version you think is best)

**Other information from the Author Publishing Guidelines (provided in
July)**

-   **Period**: Early Roman Empire (30 BCE – 259 CE)

-   **Keywords**: Roman Empire, epigraphy, archaeology, Roman military,
    Dalmatia, monuments

-   **Potential Applications of the Data**: The dataset has been
    collated to facilitate further research into the seventh legion in
    *Dalmatia* and their monuments. The structure of this dataset has
    also been designed to best capture the types of epigraphical data
    which are key for investigating the social dynamics of a Roman
    community through their inscribed monuments, and it is hoped that
    future researchers can adapt this database structure onto other
    Roman epigraphic datasets.

-   **Support**: This research was supported by the Croatian Studies
    Foundation (CSF) 2020 Community, Culture and Research Scheme, and
    the Macquarie University Macquarie Research Excellence Scholarship
    Scheme (MQRES).

-   **Related Publication(s)**: Coopey, E. (2020), ‘*Fratres* *Romani*
    in *Dalmatia*: The Social Dynamics of *Legio VII* and the
    Construction of Community and Identity through Roman Funerary
    Monuments’, MRes Thesis, Macquarie University. Accessible via:
    <http://hdl.handle.net/1959.14/1280183>

-   **Current Disposition of the Physical Collection**:\
    The monuments are either 1) lost, 2) in states of secondary use in
    modern structures, or 3) are held in museums across Croatia and
    Bosnia Hercegovina:

<!-- -->

-   Arheološka zbirka Franjevačkog samostana u Sinju/Archaeological
    collection of the Franciscan Monastery in Sinj

-   Arheološka zbirka Marka Matijevića u Solinu/The Archaeological
    collection of Marko Matijević in Solin

-   Arheološki muzej u Splitu/Archaeological Museum in Split

-   Arheološki muzej u Zadru/Archaeological Museum in Zadar

-   Basilica of Santa Maria, Porto

-   Muzej Cetina krajina/Museum of the Cetinska Region

-   Muzej Triljskog kraja/Trilj Regional Museum

-   Muzej grada Trogira/Trogir City Museum

-   Muzej u Humcu (Franjevački samostan u Humcu)/Museum of Humac
    (Franciscan monastery of Humac)

-   Zemaljski muzej Bosne i Hercegovine/The National Museum of Bosnia
    and Herzegovina

<!-- -->

-   **License Choice**: (2) CC-BY

**New: Other information from the Author Publishing Guidelines (provided
in** **August)**

-   **Map of Submission files (*descriptions in parentheses where
    recquired*):**

BromansCoopey/

-   analysis/ (*example analysis tables*)

<!-- -->

-   all\_corpora.csv

-   all\_monument\_with\_location.csv

-   all\_servicemen.csv

-   leg\_vii\_funerary\_monument.csv

-   analysis\_dictionary.docx

-   analysis\_dictionary.html

-   analysis\_dictionary.md

<!-- -->

-   data/ (*data for this database*)

<!-- -->

-   corpus.csv

-   findspot.csv

-   legio\_serviceman.csv

-   military\_status.csv

-   monument\_corpus.csv

-   monument\_serviceman.csv

-   monument.csv

-   unit.csv

-   data\_dictionary.md

-   data\_dictionary.html

-   data\_dictionary.docx

<!-- -->

-   DB-SQL/ (*files* *related to the database*)

<!-- -->

-   bibliography\_for\_db.bib *(bibliography file)*

-   bibliography\_for\_db.ris *(bibliography file)*

-   BromansDB.db *(database file)*

-   create\_monument\_db.sql *(sql code used to input
    original\_source\_data into Bromans.DB)*

-   rebuild\_db.sh *(shell script for running create\_monument\_db.sql)*

-   export\_database.sh *(shell script for exporting BromansDB.db into
    data/ and analysis/ csvs)*

<!-- -->

-   original\_source\_data (*original data*)

<!-- -->

-   corpus.csv

-   findspot.csv

-   legio\_serviceman.csv

-   military\_status.csv

-   monument\_corpus.csv

-   monument\_serviceman.csv

-   monument.csv

-   unit.csv

<!-- -->

-   thesis/

<!-- -->

-   ewan\_coopey\_2020\_fratres\_romani.pdf (*thesis which database is
    related to*)

<!-- -->

-   publication\_files/ (*various files related to publication*)

<!-- -->

-   **Methodological Notes**:

This database began with organising the epigraphic data catalogued in
Tončinić, D. (2011) *Spomenici VII. legije na području rimske provincije
Dalmacije / Monuments of Legio VII in the Roman Province of Dalmatia*.
The data concerning the monuments catalogued within this work was then
corroborated with that which available online on the EDCS
(<http://db.edcs.eu/epigr/epi.php?s_sprache=en>) and EDH
(<https://edh-www.adw.uni-heidelberg.de/>). Geographical data was then
sourced from Trismegistos (<https://www.trismegistos.org/geo/>),
Pleiades (https://pleiades.stoa.org/) and Google Maps
(https://www.google.com/maps), with archaeological and analytical data
sourced from various pieces of scholarly literature. The aforementioned
databases were also used to find comparanda as well as source data
concerning relevant monuments which were not recorded in Tončinić
(2011). When using online databases, the primary means of navigation was
through their linked open data, however their search functions were also
used with varying success.

Data was not always taken from online sources ‘as is’ and was assessed
for accuracy where appropriate. For instance, personal judgements were
made about the dating provided for certain monuments on online, as were
certain pieces of geographic data. Sometimes, the author would contact
the authors/organisers of the online resource with suggested changes.

-   **Table Field Descriptions:** Provided in data/data\_dictionary and
    analysis/analysis\_dictionary.

-   **Provide “Keys”:** Provided in data/data\_dictionary and
    analysis/analysis\_dictionary.

-   **Controlled Vocabularies (“Standards”)**: Provided in
    data/data\_dictionary and analysis/analysis\_dictionary.

-   **Site Name**: (below)

-   **Location**: (below)

**Site Name and Location:** The 59 lines of data here are from
data/findspot.csv. This is **NOT** all of the findspot data in the
corpus, there are 66 distinct find-spots in the database, however many
are from the same site with only differnt specific locations. To see all
data/findspot.csv data in the same order, run the following SQL code in
DB-SQL/BromansDB.db:

Select \*

from findspot

Order by RomanProvince, AncientSite

This table **below** was generated using the following SQL code:

Select DISTINCT

RomanProvince ||(coalesce(', '|| AncientSite, ' ' )) ||(coalesce(', '||
SpecificAncientLocation, ' ')) ||(coalesce('('|| ModernSite, ''))||')'
AS 'Ancient Site (Modern Site)',

LATITUDE\_epsg\_4326,

LONGITUDE\_epsg\_4326,

Pleiades,

Trismegistos

from findspot

Order by RomanProvince, AncientSite

  **Ancient Site (Modern Site)**                         **LATITUDE\_epsg\_4326**   **LONGITUDE\_epsg\_4326**   **Pleiades**                                 **Trismegistos**
  ------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- --------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------
  Dalmatia                                                                                                      https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/981522      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/11624
  Dalmatia (Dugopolje)                                   43.599333                  16.589915                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29360
  Dalmatia (Dicmo)                                       43.635791                  16.593133                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29340
  Dalmatia (Prud)                                        43.0920794                 17.5494842                                                               https://www.trismegistos.org/place/36202
  Dalmatia (Imotski)                                     43.447478                  17.217691                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29382
  Dalmatia (Vaganj-Jajce)                                44.15513                   17.17608                                                                 https://www.trismegistos.org/place/36267
  Dalmatia (Popovići)                                    44.075137                  15.663098                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/36189
  Dalmatia (Krug)                                        43.456728                  16.634664                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/36097
  Dalmatia (Razvođe)                                     43.92898                   16.107708                                                                
  Dalmatia (Gorica)                                      43.495214                  16.647371                                                                
  Dalmatia, Aequum (Sinj)                                43.739278                  16.655704                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197095      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/19893
  Dalmatia, Aequum (Hrvace)                              43.755188                  16.621101                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197095      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/19893
  Dalmatia, Aequum (Glavice)                             43.711624                  16.661095                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197095      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/19893
  Dalmatia, Aequum (Sinjsko polje)                       43.675387                  16.695576                                                                
  Dalmatia, Aequum (Krinj-Hrvace)                        43.745556                  16.644167                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197095      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/19893
  Dalmatia, Aequum (Čitluk)                              43.739278                  16.655704                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197095      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/19893
  Dalmatia, Andetrium (Gornji Muć)                       43.690597                  16.484007                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197115      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29420
  Dalmatia, Andetrium (Gornji Postinje)                  43.701                     16.424                      https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197115      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29420
  Dalmatia, Asseria (Podgrađe)                           44.01096805                15.6663802                  https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197145      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/28793
  Dalmatia, Burnum (Kistanje)                            44.018914                  16.025622                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197184      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29387
  Dalmatia, Corinium (Donji Karin)                       44.104527                  15.633504                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197225      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29319
  Dalmatia, Iadera (Zadar)                               44.120336                  15.237922                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197312      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/28796
  Dalmatia, Iadera (Zadar)                               44.219355                  15.283776                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197312      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/28796
  Dalmatia, Municipium Riditarum/Rider (Danilo)          43.700462                  16.055704                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197473      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29458
  Dalmatia, Narona (Vid)                                 43.08130155                17.62464523                 https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197400      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/16527
  Dalmatia, Narona (Čitluk)                              43.228021                  17.698194                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197400      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/16527
  Dalmatia, Pagus Scunasticus (Filovača)                 43.195182                  17.561619                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/43363
  Dalmatia, Pagus Scunasticus (Vuna-Hardomilje)          43.159097                  17.544753                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/43363
  Dalmatia, Pagus Scunasticus (Veljaci)                  43.237222                  17.445                                                                   https://www.trismegistos.org/place/43363
  Dalmatia, Pagus Scunasticus (Gračine-Humac)            43.182217                  17.528855                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/43363
  Dalmatia, Pagus Scunasticus (Grebine-Vitaljina)        43.182298                  17.5285698                                                               https://www.trismegistos.org/place/43363
  Dalmatia, Pagus Scunasticus (Glavica-Ljubuški)         43.196349                  17.556913                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/43363
  Dalmatia, Pagus Scunasticus (Humac)                    43.182217                  17.528855                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/43363
  Dalmatia, Pagus Scunasticus (Smokovice-Hardomilje)     43.159097                  17.544753                                                                https://www.trismegistos.org/place/43363
  Dalmatia, Pons Tiluri (Trilj)                          43.61461719                16.728064                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197453      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/40852
  Dalmatia, Salona, North Necropolis(Solin)              43.53869                   16.476543                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197488      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/7043
  Dalmatia, Salona, East Necropolis(Solin)               43.541733                  16.491405                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197488      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/7043
  Dalmatia, Salona (Solin)                               43.539561                  16.483426                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197488      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/7043
  Dalmatia, Salona, Porta Caesarea-Five bridges(Solin)   43.538339                  16.483576                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197488      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/7043
  Dalmatia, Salona, North Necropolis(Kapljuč)            43.53937                   16.47679                    https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197488      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/7043
  Dalmatia, Salona, East Necropolis(Klis)                43.540222                  16.496858                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197488      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/7043
  Dalmatia, Salona, North Necropolis(Solin)              43.538629                  16.475334                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197488      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/7043
  Dalmatia, Salona, East Necropolis(Solin)               43.537314                  16.491401                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197488      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/7043
  Dalmatia, Salona (Solin)                               43.535713                  16.493097                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197488      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/7043
  Dalmatia, Siculi (Bijaći)                              43.555434                  16.298595                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197511      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29385
  Dalmatia, Spalatum (Split)                             43.507814                  16.4388951                  https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/834862588   https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29361
  Dalmatia, Tilurium (Vojnić)                            43.615035                  16.700356                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197552      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29459
  Dalmatia, Tilurium (Gardun)                            43.612006                  16.714766                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197552      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29459
  Dalmatia, Tilurium (Gardun)                            43.612652                  16.714676                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197552      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29459
  Dalmatia, Tilurium (Košute)                            43.626113                  16.699521                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197552      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29459
  Dalmatia, Tilurium (Trilj)                             43.618756                  16.723601                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197552      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29459
  Dalmatia, Tragurium (Trogir)                           43.517639                  16.25063                    https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197555      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29369
  Dalmatia, Tragurium (Seget Donji)                      43.5167                    16.2333                     https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/197555      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29369
  Galatia, Antiochia Pisidiae (Yalvaç)                   38.305175                  31.1894355                  https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/609307      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/204
  Galatia, Apollonia/Tymandus )                          38.104416                  30.607024                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/609563      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/16444
  Galatia, Cormasa (Gâvur Ören)                          37.5053445                 30.1194035                  https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/638936      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/16132
  Galatia, Iconium (Konya)                               37.872202                  32.492331                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/648647      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/2919
  Moesia Superior, Viminacium (Drmno)                    44.73291                   21.230575                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/207549      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/29642
  Thracia, Lysimacheia (Bolayir)                         40.51592                   26.762394                   https://pleiades.stoa.org/places/501458      https://www.trismegistos.org/place/3582


